Kaptain 2.0.0 Docs tutorials folder (#4323)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kaptain/2.0.0/tutorials/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Tutorials
title: Tutorials
menuWeight: 10
excerpt: End-to-end tutorials for model development, distributed training, pipelines and metadata management
enterprise: false
---

Kaptain offers several ways to train models (including distributed), tune hyperparameters, and deploy optimized models that autoscale.

The [Kaptain SDK][kaptain-sdk] is the best choice for a data science-friendly user experience.
It is designed to be a great first experience with Kaptain.

If you prefer to have full control and are familiar and comfortable with Kubeflow SDKs, or YAML specifications in Kubernetes, then we suggest you consult the other tutorials.

Note that everything can be done from within notebooks, thanks to Kaptain's notebooks-first approach to machine learning. 

## How to Navigate the User Interface

The Kubeflow _central dashboard_ is the main entry point to Kaptain after logging in:

![Central dashboard](./img/central-dashboard.png)

> The central area shows recent pipelines, pipeline runs, and notebooks as well as links to documentation.

Author: @gvasquezvargas this should be good to edit.

![Pipeline runs](./img/pipeline-runs.png)

### Pipeline Run Logs
After selecting a single run, logs for individual steps of a pipeline can be displayed:

![Pipeline run logs](./img/pipeline-logs.png)

This is particularly helpful when debugging pipeline steps.

Each step logs its inputs and outputs, which can be accessed via the _Input/Output_ tab.

### Pipeline Artifacts
Input and outputs of steps, also known as artifacts, are stored in the Artifacts Store.
These are available in the _Artifacts_ menu.
The lineage of pipeline artifacts is displayed in the _Lineage Explorer_ tab:

![Pipeline artifacts](./img/pipeline-artifacts.png)

## Notebook Servers
Notebook servers can be set up from the _Notebook Servers_ menu on the central dashboard.
From there, users can choose a quick-start image for any of the supported deep learning frameworks: TensorFlow, PyTorch, and MXNet.
Each quick-start image comes in two flavors: CPU and GPU.
The latter has all the drivers needed for training on GPUs included.
Custom images can also be provided.

### How to Set Up a Notebook Server
A notebook server is the entry point to cluster resources for machine learning.

> Each notebook server is a Docker container with Jupyter as well as various frameworks included out of the box.

Author: @gvasquezvargas

Each notebook server receives a number of resources attached to it:
- CPUs (mandatory)
- RAM (mandatory)
- GPUs (optional)

These resources are _per pod_. Resource limits can also be configured in _Advanced options_ section.
The GPU vendor is always NVIDIA, but it must be selected. 

Code run from within a Jupyter notebook on Kaptain runs on these resources.
This means that it is possible to restrict the number of resources attached to a particular notebook server even though the cluster may have more resources available for additional workloads or other notebook servers.

The next configuration option for a notebook server allows workspace volumes to be added.
This enables notebook workspaces to be persisted.
Data volumes can also be mounted to notebook servers.
These are mounted to each pod on the notebook server.

Affinity and tolerations are advanced configuration options that allow the notebook server's workloads to run on specific resources within the cluster using [toleration groups][toleration-groups].
This allows for separation of, say, development and production workloads on the same underlying Kubernetes cluster without having to set up multiple clusters.

> It also enables specific workloads to be run on dedicated hardware, e.g. large-scale image processing on state-of-the-art GPUs that are off limits for other workloads or notebook servers.

Author: ```suggestion
It also enables specific workloads to be run on dedicated hardware, for example large-scale image processing on state-of-the-art GPUs that are off limits for other workloads or notebook servers.
```

Custom configurations, such as for instance [secrets][secrets], can be added to the notebook server with the "Configurations" option.

> The toggle for "Enabled Shared Memory" is recommended as certain machine learning frameworks (e.g. PyTorch) require it.

Author: ```suggestion
The toggle for "Enabled Shared Memory" is recommended as certain machine learning frameworks (for example PyTorch) require it.
```

![Notebook Server Setup](./img/notebook-server-setup-2.png)

Once you have completed the required configuration options for the notebook server, the "Launch" button becomes active and can be clicked.
The setup may take a few minutes depending on the size of the notebook image chosen.
The progress can be monitored on the _Notebook Servers_ page.
The result is as follows:

![Notebook Server Setup](./img/notebook-server-setup-3.png)

Please consult Kubeflow's documentation on [setting up notebook servers][kubeflow-docs-notebooks] for additional details. 

> Notebook Servers can be stopped and resumed (in other words, scaled-down or up) to free up allocated resources such as GPU or memory and make them available to other workloads. To stop a notebook server, press the "&#9632;" button on the right side of the notebook list.  Resume the notebook by pressing the "&#9658;" button. It is also possible to configure Kaptain to automatically scale down idle notebooks.  More information is located in the [Auto Cleanup Settings][auto-cleanup-settings].

Author: ```suggestion
Notebook Servers can be stopped and resumed (in other words, scaled-down or up) to free up allocated resources such as GPU or memory and make them available to other workloads. To stop a notebook server, press the "&#9632;" button on the right side of the notebook list. Resume the notebook by pressing the "&#9658;" button. It is also possible to configure Kaptain to automatically scale down idle notebooks. More information is located in the [Auto Cleanup Settings][auto-cleanup-settings].
```
